Building a Simple Chatbot Using Python

1. Introduction to NLP and Chatbot Frameworks:
Definition and Importance of NLP:
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field of artificial intelligence that focuses on the interaction between computers and humans through natural language. The ultimate goal of NLP is to enable computers to understand, interpret, and generate human languages in a way that is both meaningful and useful

Applications of NLP:
• Sentiment Analysis
• Language Translation
• Cherbots and Virtual Assistants
• Test Summartration
• Speech Recognition

Common NLP Tasks:
• Tokenization
  Tokenization is the process of breaking text into individual words or tokens.
• Stemming and Lemmatization
  Stemming and lemmatization are processes of reducing words to their root forms.
• Stop Words Removal
  Stop words are common words that add little meaning to text and are often removed in preprocessing.


import nltk
nltk.download('punkt')
from nitk.tokenize import word_tokenize
text = "Natural Language Processing is fascinating."
tokens = word_tokenize(text)
print(tokens)


from nltk.stem import PorterStemmer
stemmer = PorterStemmer()
words = ["running", "ran", "runs"]
stems = [stemmer.stem(word) for word in words]
print(stems)


from nitk.corpus import stopwords
nltk.download('stopwords')
stop_words = set(stopwords.words('english'))
filtered_text = [word for word in tokens if word.lower() not in stop_words]
print(filtered_text)


Overview of Popular NLP Libraries.
• NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit)
  NLTK is a powerful library for various NLP tasks, including tokenization, stemming, lemmatization, and more.
• SpaCy
  Spacy is an open-source software library for advanced NLP tasks, known for its speed and efficiency.
• TextBlob
  TextBlob is a simple library for processing textual data, providing easy-to-use APIs for common NLP tasks.

Introduction to Chatbot Frameworks:
• ChatterBot
  ChatterBot is a Python library that makes it easy to generate automated responses to a user's input.
• Rasa
  Rassa is an open-source framework for building conversational Al, including chatbots and voice assistants.
